Refactor data migration docs (#7202)
pingcap/docs: data-migration/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md

| `-o` or `--output`     |  Specifies the export directory of the storage, which supports a local file path or a [URL of an external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md).|
| `-r` or `--row`        | Specifies the maximum number of rows in a single file. If you use this parameter, Dumpling enables the in-table concurrency to speed up the export and reduce the memory usage.|
| `-F` |  Specifies the maximum size of a single file. The unit is `MiB`. It is recommended to keep the value to 256 MiB. |
| `-B` or `--database`   | Specifies databases to be exported. |
| `-f` or `--filter`     |  Sexport tables that match the filter pattern. For the filter syntax, see [table-filter](/table-filter.md) |

Ensure that there is enough free space in `${data-path}`. It is strongly recommended to use the `-F` option to avoid interruptions in the backup process due to oversized single tables.

> Then, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`. Note that the path is `${data-path}/my_db2` instead of `${data-path}/my_db1`.

Author: ```suggestion

Then, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`. Note that the path is `${data-path}/my_db2` instead of `${data-path}/my_db1`.
```

    sorted-kv-dir = "${sorted-kv-dir}"

    # Set the renaming rules ('routes') from source to target tables, in order to support merging different table shards into a single target table. Here you migrate `table1` and `table2` in `my_db1`, and `table3` and `table4` in `my_db2`, to the target `table5` in downstream `my_db`.
    [[routes]]
    schema-pattern = "my_db1"
    table-pattern = "table[1-2]"
    target-schema = "my_db"
    target-table = "table5"

    [[routes]]
    schema-pattern = "my_db2"
    table-pattern = "table[3-4]"
    target-schema = "my_db"
    target-table = "table5"

    [mydumper]
    # The source data directory. Set this to the path of the Dumpling exported data.
    # If there are several Dumpling-exported data directories, you need to place all these directories in the same parent directory, and use the parent directory here.
    data-source-dir = "${data-path}"
    # Because table1~table4 from source are merged into another table5 in the target, you should tell TiDB Lightning no need to create schemas, so that table1 ~ table4 won't be created automatically according to the exported schema information

>     # This parameter can prevent creating tables1~4 downstream based on files exported by Dumpling.

Author: ```suggestion   
```

- `-o` or `--output` specifies the export directory of the storage, which supports a local file path or a [URL of an external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md).
- `-r` or `--row` specifies the maximum number of rows in a single file. If you use this parameter, Dumpling enables the in-table concurrency to speed up the export and reduce the memory usage.
- `-F` specifies the maximum size of a single file. The unit is `MiB`. Inputs such as `5GiB` or `8KB` are also acceptable. It is recommended to keep the value to 256 MiB or less, if you use TiDB Lightning to load this file into a TiDB instance.
- `-B` or `--database` specifies databases to be exported.
- `-f` or `--filter` export tables that match the filter pattern. For the filter syntax, see [table-filter](/table-filter.md).

> **Note:**
>
> If the size of a single exported table exceeds 10 GiB, it is strongly recommended to use the `-r` and `-F` options.

> Then, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`:

Author: ```suggestion
Then, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`. Note that the path is `${data-path}/my_db2` instead of `${data-path}/my_db1`.
```

* --checkpoint-error-destroy: This option allows you to restart migrating from scratch.
* --checkpoint-error-ignore: If migration has failed, this option clears the error status as if no errors ever happened.
* --checkpoint-remove: This option simply clears all checkpoints, regardless of errors.

For more information, see [TiDB Lightning Checkpoints](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-checkpoints).

### Create the target schema

After you make changes in the aforementioned [Check conflicts for sharded tables](data-migration\migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md#check-conflicts-for-sharding-tables), you can now manually create the `my_db` schema and `table5` in downstream TiDB. After that, you need to configure `tidb-lightning.toml`.

```toml
[mydumper]
no-schema = true # If you have created the schema and tables downstream, `true` means not to create the schema.
```

> ### Start the migration task

Author: OK. Added a comment on the Chinese version.

    table-pattern = "table[3-4]"
    target-schema = "my_db"
    target-table = "table5"

    [mydumper]
    # The source data directory. Set this to the path of the Dumpling exported data.
    # If Dumpling is executed multiple times and in different directories, you need to place all the exported data in the same parent directory.
    # You can specify this parent directory here.
    data-source-dir = "${data-path}"
    # Because table1~4 are merged into table5, you do not need to create a schema.
    # This parameter can prevent creating table1~4 downstream based on Dumpling's exported files.
    no-schema = true
    # Configure the wildcard rules. By default, all tables in the following will be filtered: mysql, sys, INFORMATION_SCHEMA, PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA, METRICS_SCHEMA, INSPECTION_SCHEMA
    # If not configured, an error “schema not found” will occur when migrating system tables.
    filter = ['*.*', '!mysql.*', '!sys.*', '!INFORMATION_SCHEMA.*', '!PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA.*', '!METRICS_SCHEMA.*', '!INSPECTION_SCHEMA.*']

    [tidb]
    # Information of the target TiDB cluster.
    # Values here are only for illustration purpose. Replace them with your own values.

>     host = ${host}           # For example: "172.16.31.2"

Author: Fixed

    port = ${port}           # For example: 4000
    user = "${user_name}"    # For example: "root"
    password = "${password}" # For example: "rootroot"
    # The table information is read from the status port.
    status-port = ${status-port} # For example: 10080

>     # the IP address of the cluster PD. Values here are only for illustration purpose. Replace them with your own values.

Author: ```suggestion
    # the IP address of the PD cluster. TiDB Lightning gets some information through the PD cluster.
```

>     # Because table1~table4 from source are merged into another table5 in the target, you should tell TiDB Lightning no need to create schemas, so that table1 ~ table4 won't be created automatically according to the exported schema information
>     # This parameter can prevent creating tables1~4 downstream based on files exported by Dumpling.

Author: ```suggestion
    # Because table1~table4 from source are merged into another table5 in the target, you should tell TiDB Lightning no need to create schemas, so that table1 ~ table4 won't be created automatically according to the exported schema information.
```

    # When backend = "local", make sure that the values of status-port and pd-addr are correct. Otherwise an error will occur.
    pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"
    ```

3. Run `tidb-lightning`. If you run the program by directly invoking the program name in a shell, the process may quit unexpectedly after receiving a SIGHUP signal. It is recommended that you run the program using tools such as `nohup` or `screen` or `tiup`, and put the process to the shell background. For example:

   {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

   ```shell

>    tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```

>    tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &

Author: ```suggestion
   nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```

      binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db2/metadata in Step 1. It must be the GTID when there is a primary-standby switch upstream.
      binlog-pos: ${binlog-position}
      # binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"
# (Optional) If you need to migrate full data that has already been migrated during a full-data migration, you need to enable the safe mode to avoid data migration errors during incremental replication.
# This scenario is common when the fully migrated data is not part of a consistent snapshot of the data source, and then the incremental data is replicated from a location earlier than the fully migrated data.
# syncers:           # The running parameters of the sync processing unit.
#  global:           # Configuration name.
# If set to true, it changes INSERT from the data source to REPLACE, and changes UPDATE from the data source to DELETE and REPLACE.
# Thus, it can migrate DML repeatedly during migration when primary keys or unique indexes exist in the table structure.
# TiDB DM automatically starts safe mode within 1 minute before starting or resuming an incremental replication task.

> #    safe-mode: true

Author: 一般把描述都放到参数的上面的。所以这里不用动。

|start-task   | Starts the data migration task. |

If the task fails to start, first make configuration changes according to the returned result, and then run the `start-task task.yaml` command to restart the task. If you encounter problems, see [Handle Errors](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/error-handling) and [TiDB Data Migration FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/faq).

### Check the migration result

You can check if there are running migration tasks in the DM cluster and their status. Use `tiup dmctl` to run the `query-status` command to query.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} query-status ${task-name}
```

For more information, see [Query Status](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/query-status).

### Monitor tasks and view logs

To view the history status of the migration task and more internal operational metrics, you can use Grafana or check logs.

If Prometheus, Alertmanager and Grafana are correctly deployed when you deploy the DM cluster using TiUP, you can view DM monitoring metrics in Grafana.

> When DM is running, DM-master, DM-worker and dmctl output logs. The log directory of each component is as follows.
> 
> - DM-master log directory: It is specified by the --log-file DM-master process parameter. If DM is deployed using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-master-8261/log/` in the DM-master node.
> - DM-worker log directory: It is specified by the --log-file DM-worker process parameter. If DM is deployed using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-worker-8262/log/` in the DM-worker node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Via logs

    When DM is running, DM-master, DM-worker, and dmctl output logs, which includes information about migration tasks. The log directory of each component is as follows.

    - DM-master log directory: It is specified by the DM-master process parameter `--log-file`. If DM is deployed using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-master-8261/log/`.
    - DM-worker log directory: It is specified by the DM-worker process parameter `--log-file`. If DM is deployed using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-worker-8262/log/`.
```
1. 加了通过日志查看的标题
2. 根据中文修改了日志的默认路径

---
title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards of more than 1 TiB to TiDB using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning.

> ---

Author: ```suggestion
aliases: ['/tidb-data-migration/stable/usage-scenario-shard-merge']
---
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE `table5` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `sid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `pid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `comment` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  INDEX (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `sid` (`sid`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
```

The following sections introduce the complete migration procedure.

## Step1. Use Dumpling to export full data

If you need to export multiple sharded tables belonging to the same upstream MySQL instance, you can directly use the `-f` parameter of Dumpling to export them in a single operation.

If the sharded tables are stored across different MySQL instances, you can use Dumpling to export them respectively and place the exported results in the same parent directory.

In the following example, both methods are used, and then the exported data is stored in the same parent directory.

First, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table1` and `table2` from `my_db1`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dumpling -h ${ip} -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -r 200000 -F 256MB -B my_db1 -f 'my_db1.table[12]' -o ${data-path}/my_db1
```

> In the command above:

Author: ```suggestion
The following table describes parameters in the command above. For more information about Dumpling parameters, see [Dumpling Overview](/dumpling-overview.md).
```

| Parameter       |   Description |
|-                |-              |

> | `-u` or `--user`       |   Specifies the user name to be used. If a password is required for authentication, you can use `-p $YOUR_SECRET_PASSWORD` to pass the password to Dumpling. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `-u` or `--user`       |   Specifies the user name to be used.  |
```

| `-p` or `--password`   |   Specifies the password to be used. |
| `-p` or `--port`       |   Specifies the port to be used.|
| `-h` or `--host`       |   Specifies the IP address of the data source.  |

> | `-t` or `--thread`     |   Specifies the number of threads for the export. Increasing the number of threads improves the concurrency of Dumpling and the export speed, and increases the database's memory consumption. Therefore, it is not recommended to set the number too large.|

Author: ```suggestion
| `-t` or `--thread`     |   Specifies the number of threads for the export. Increasing the number of threads improves the concurrency of Dumpling and the export speed, and increases the database's memory consumption. Therefore, it is not recommended to set the number too large. Usually, it's less than 64.|
```

| `-o` or `--output`     |  Specifies the export directory of the storage, which supports a local file path or a [URL of an external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md).|
| `-r` or `--row`        | Specifies the maximum number of rows in a single file. If you use this parameter, Dumpling enables the in-table concurrency to speed up the export and reduce the memory usage.|

> | `-F` |  Specifies the maximum size of a single file. The unit is `MiB`. Inputs such as `5GiB` or `8KB` are also acceptable. It is recommended to keep the value to 256 MiB or less, if you use TiDB Lightning to load this file into a TiDB instance. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `-F` |  Specifies the maximum size of a single file. The unit is `MiB`. It is recommended to keep the value to 256 MiB. |
```

| `-B` or `--database`   | Specifies databases to be exported. |
| `-f` or `--filter`     |  Sexport tables that match the filter pattern. For the filter syntax, see [table-filter](/table-filter.md) |

> > **Note:**
> >
> > If the size of a single exported table exceeds 10 GiB, it is strongly recommended to use the `-r` and `-F` options.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    table-pattern = "table[3-4]"
    target-schema = "my_db"
    target-table = "table5"

    [mydumper]
    # The source data directory. Set this to the path of the Dumpling exported data.
    # If Dumpling is executed multiple times and in different directories, you need to place all the exported data in the same parent directory.
    # You can specify this parent directory here.
    data-source-dir = "${data-path}"
    # Because tables1~4 are merged into table5, you do not need to create a schema.
    # This parameter can prevent creating tables1~4 downstream based on files exported by Dumpling.
    no-schema = true
    # Configure the wildcard rules. By default, all the following tables will be filtered: mysql, sys, INFORMATION_SCHEMA, PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA, METRICS_SCHEMA, INSPECTION_SCHEMA
    # If not configured, an error “schema not found” will occur when migrating system tables.
    filter = ['*.*', '!mysql.*', '!sys.*', '!INFORMATION_SCHEMA.*', '!PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA.*', '!METRICS_SCHEMA.*', '!INSPECTION_SCHEMA.*']

    [tidb]
    # Information of the target TiDB cluster.
    # Values here are only for illustration purpose. Replace them with your own values.

>     host = ${host}           # For example: "172.16.31.2"

Author: ```suggestion
    host = ${host}           # For example: "172.16.31.1"
```

    schema-pattern: "my_db1"          # Rule for matching upstream schema names. It supports the wildcards "*" and "?".
    table-pattern: "table[1-2]"       # Rule for matching upstream table names. It supports the wildcards "*" and "?".
    target-schema: "my_db"            # Name of the target schema.
    target-table: "table5"            # Name of the target table.
  route-rule-2:                       # Rule name. Migrate and merge table3 and table4 from my_db2 to the downstream my_db.table5.
    schema-pattern: "my_db2"
    table-pattern: "table[3-4]"
    target-schema: "my_db"
    target-table: "table5"

# Configure data sources. The following uses two data sources as an example.
mysql-instances:
  - source-id: "mysql-01"             # Data source ID. It is the source-id in source1.yaml.
    block-allow-list: "bw-rule-1"     # Use the block and allow list configuration above. Replicate `my_db1` in instance 1.
    route-rules: ["route-rule-1"]     # Use the configured routing rule above to merge upstream tables.
#       syncer-config-name: "global"  # Use the syncers configuration below.

>     meta:                             # The migration starting point of binlog when task-mode is incremental and there is no checkpoint in the downstream database. A checkpoint prevails if any.

Author: ```suggestion
    meta:                             # The migration starting point of binlog when task-mode is incremental and there is no checkpoint in the downstream database. If there is a checkpoint, the checkpoint will be used.
```

      binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db1/metadata in Step 1. You can either specify binlog-name + binlog-pos or binlog-gtid. When the upstream database service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, use binlog GTID here. 
      binlog-pos: ${binlog-position}
      # binlog-gtid:                  " For example: 09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"
  - source-id: "mysql-02"             # Data source ID. It is the source-id in source1.yaml.
    block-allow-list: "bw-rule-2"     # Use the block and allow list configuration above. Replicate `my_db2` in instance2.
    route-rules: ["route-rule-2"]     # Use the routing rule configured above.
#       syncer-config-name: "global"  # Use the syncers configuration below.

>     meta:                             # The migration starting point of binlog when task-mode is incremental and there is no checkpoint in the downstream database. A checkpoint prevails if any.

Author: ```suggestion
    meta:                             # The migration starting point of binlog when task-mode is incremental and there is no checkpoint in the downstream database. If there is a checkpoint, the checkpoint will be used.
```

---

> title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB

Author: @sunzhaoyang Please take a look.

> title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB

Reviewer: The shard is more appropriate because it is usually done by the operations staff in MySQL to distribute the data to different mysql instances.

> title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB

Author: Thanks. As agreed, we'll use shards.

> title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB

Author: We'll use shard as agreed. So let's leave it as it is.

summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards of more than 1 TiB to TiDB using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning.
---

# Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB

If the total size of the MySQL shards is large (for example, more than 1 TiB) and the TiDB cluster can suspend business writes during data migration, you can use TiDB Lightning to quickly migrate and merge the MySQL shards. After migration, you can also use TiDB DM to perform incremental replication according to your business needs.

This document walks you through the procedure of how to migrate large MySQL shards to TiDB.

> If the data size of the MySQL shards is less than 1 TiB, you can follow the procedure described in [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Less Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md), which supports both full and incremental migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the data size of the MySQL shards is less than 1 TiB, you can follow the procedure described in [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Less Than 1 TB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md), which supports both full and incremental migration.
```

Reviewer: 避免被当成 Typo 错误.....

The following diagram shows how to migrate MySQL shards to TiDB using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning.

![Use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to migrate and merge MySQL shards to TiDB](/media/shard-merge-using-lightning-en.png)

This example assumes that you have two databases, `my_db1` and `my_db2`. You use Dumpling to export two tables `table1` and `table2` from `my_db1`, and two tables `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`, respectively. After that, you use TiDB Lighting to migrate and merge the four exported tables into the same `table5` in the downstream TiDB.

Note that although Dumpling can export all databases from a MySQL instance, this document only exports some of the data as an example.

In this document, you can migrate data following this procedure:

1. Use Dumpling to export full data. In this example, you export 2 tables respectively from 2 upstream databases:

   - Export `table1` and `table2` from my_db1
   - Export `table3` and `table4` from my_db2

> 2. Start TiDB Lightning to migrate data to `mydb.table5` in TiDB.

Author: We have agreed to use 'migrate' in this scenario.

3. (Optional) Use TiDB DM to perform incremental replication.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, see the following documents to prepare for the migration task.

- [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup)
- [Use TiUP to Deploy Dumpling and Lightning](/migration-tools.md)
- [Privileges required by DM-worker](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro#privileges-required-by-dm-worker)
- [Upstream Permissions for Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq#what-is-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database)
- [Downstream Permissions for Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md##export-data-from-tidbmysql)

> ### Hardware requirements of TiDB Lightning

Author: Ran and I will rework this part to make them consistent.

```sql
CREATE TABLE `table5` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `sid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `pid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `comment` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  INDEX (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `sid` (`sid`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
```

The following sections introduce the complete migration procedure.

## Step1. Use Dumpling to export full data

If you need to export multiple sharded tables belonging to the same upstream MySQL instance, you can directly use the `-f` parameter of Dumpling to export them in a single operation.

If the sharded tables are stored across different MySQL instances, you can use Dumpling to export them respectively and place the exported results in the same parent directory.

In the following example, both methods are used, and then the exported data is stored in the same parent directory.

First, run the following command to use Dumpling to export table1 and table2 from my_db:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dumpling -h ${ip} -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -r 200000 -F 256MB -B my_db1 -f 'my_db1.table[12]' -o ${data-path}/my_db1
```

> In the command above:

Author: OK, added.

| Parameter       |   Description |
|-                |-              |

> | `-u` or `--user`       |   Specifies the user name to be used. If a password is required for authentication, you can use `-p $YOUR_SECRET_PASSWORD` to pass the password to Dumpling. |

Author: Updated.

| `-p` or `--password`   |   Specifies the password to be used. |
| `-p` or `--port`       |   Specifies the port to be used.|
| `-h` or `--host`       |   Specifies the IP address of the data source.  |

> | `-t` or `--thread`     |   Specifies the number of threads for the export. Increasing the number of threads improves the concurrency of Dumpling and the export speed, and increases the database's memory consumption. Therefore, it is not recommended to set the number too large.|

Author: The English version is better. Added a comment in the Chinese version.

| `-o` or `--output`     |  Specifies the export directory of the storage, which supports a local file path or a [URL of an external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md).|

> | `-r` or `--row`        | Specifies the maximum number of rows in a single file. If you use this parameter, Dumpling enables the in-table concurrency to speed up the export and reduce the memory usage.|

Author: Ditto

> | `-F` |  Specifies the maximum size of a single file. The unit is `MiB`. Inputs such as `5GiB` or `8KB` are also acceptable. It is recommended to keep the value to 256 MiB or less, if you use TiDB Lightning to load this file into a TiDB instance. |

Author: Updated

| `-B` or `--database`   | Specifies databases to be exported. |
| `-f` or `--filter`     |  Sexport tables that match the filter pattern. For the filter syntax, see [table-filter](/table-filter.md) |

> **Note:**
>

> > If the size of a single exported table exceeds 10 GiB, it is strongly recommended to use the `-r` and `-F` options.

Author: Updated

Then, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`. Note that the path is `${data-path}/my_db2` instead of `${data-path}/my_db1`.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dumpling -h ${ip} -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -r 200000 -F 256MB -B my_db2 -f 'my_db2.table[34]' -o ${data-path}/my_db2
```

After the preceding procedures, all source data tables are now exported to the `${data-path}` directory. The reason for this practice is to facilitate subsequent import by TiDB Lightning.

The starting point information needed for incremental replication is in the `${data-path}` directory, and in the `metadata` files of `my_db1` and `my_db2`. They are meta-information files automatically generated by Dumpling. To perform incremental replication, you need to note down the binlog location information.

## Step 2. Start TiDB Lightning to migrate data

Before starting TiDB Lightning for migration, it is recommended that you understand how to handle checkpoints, and then choose the appropriate way to proceed according to your needs.

> ### Checkpoints

Author: See the reply below.

Migrating a large volume of data usually takes hours or even days. There is a certain chance that the long-running process is interrupted. It can be very frustrating to redo everything from scratch.

> Fortunately, TiDB Lightning provides a `checkpoints` feature to let you store the migration progress, so that an interrupted migration task can resume from the breakpoint upon restart.

Author: It's "checkpoints". See https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-checkpoints

* --checkpoint-error-destroy: This option allows you to restart migrating from scratch.
* --checkpoint-error-ignore: If migration has failed, this option clears the error status as if no errors ever happened.
* --checkpoint-remove: This option simply clears all checkpoints, regardless of errors.

For more information, see [TiDB Lightning Checkpoints](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-checkpoints).

### Create the target schema

After you make changes in the aforementioned [Check conflicts for sharded tables](data-migration\migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md#check-conflicts-for-sharding-tables), you can now manually create the `my_db` schema and `table5` in downstream TiDB. After that, you need to configure `tidb-lightning.toml`.

```toml
[mydumper]
no-schema = true # If you have created the schema and tables downstream, `true` means not to create the schema.
```

> ### Start the migration task

Author: We decided to use migrate in this scenario.

Follow these steps to start `tidb-lightning`:

1. Upload the data sources to the server with TiDB Lightning deployed.
2. Edit the toml file. `tidb-lightning.toml` is used in the following example:

    ```toml
    [lightning]
    # Logs
    level = "info"
    file = "tidb-lightning.log"

    [tikv-importer]
    # Choose a local backend.
    # "local": The default mode. It is used for large data volumes greater than 1 TiB. During migration, downstream TiDB cannot provide services.
    # "tidb": Used for data volumes less than 1 TiB. During migration, downstream TiDB can provide services normally.
    # For more information, see [TiDB Lightning Backends](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends)
    backend = "local"
    # Set the temporary directory for the sorted key value pairs. It must be empty.
    # The free space must be greater than the largest single table of the data source.
    # It is recommended that you have a different disk directory from `data-source-dir` to get better migration performance with exclusive IO.

>     sorted-kv-dir = "/mnt/ssd/sorted-kv-dir"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sorted-kv-dir = "${sorted-kv-dir}"
```

    # Set routes. Migrate table1 and table2 in my_db1, and table3 and table4 in my_db2, to the target table5 in downstream my_db.
    [[routes]]
    schema-pattern = "my_db1"
    table-pattern = "table[1-2]"
    target-schema = "my_db"
    target-table = "table5"

    [[routes]]
    schema-pattern = "my_db2"
    table-pattern = "table[3-4]"
    target-schema = "my_db"
    target-table = "table5"

    [mydumper]
    # The source data directory. Set this to the path of the Dumpling exported data.
    # If Dumpling is executed multiple times and in different directories, you need to place all the exported data in the same parent directory.

>     # You can specify this parent directory here.

Author: ```suggestion
```

    [tidb]
    # Information of the target TiDB cluster.
    # Values here are only for illustration purpose. Replace them with your own values.
    host = ${host}           # For example: "172.16.31.1"
    port = ${port}           # For example: 4000
    user = "${user_name}"    # For example: "root"
    password = "${password}" # For example: "rootroot"
    # The table information is read from the status port.
    status-port = ${status-port} # For example: 10080
    # the IP address of the PD cluster. TiDB Lightning gets some information through the PD cluster.
    # For example: "172.16.31.3:2379".
    # When backend = "local", make sure that the values of status-port and pd-addr are correct. Otherwise an error will occur.
    pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"
    ```

3. Configure appropriate parameters to run `tidb-lightning`. If you start the task directly in a command-line interface, it may quit due to the SIGHUP signal. It is recommended that you introduce such tools as `nohup` and `screen`. For example:

   {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

   ```shell
   tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
   ```

> 4. After starting the migration task, you can check the progress by using either of the following methods:

Author: We use migration in this case.

After the migration finishes, TiDB Lightning will exit automatically. To make sure that the data is migrated successfully, check for `the whole procedure completed` among the last 5 lines.

> **Note:**
>
> Whether the migration is successful or not, the last line will always show `tidb lightning exit`. It just means that TiDB Lightning quits normally, and does not guarantee that the task is completed successfully.

If you encounter any problems during migration, see [TiDB Lightning FAQs](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md).

## Step 3. (Optional) Use DM to perform incremental replication

To migrate the source database to TiDB based on the binlog from a specified position, you can use TiDB DM to perform incremental replication.

### Add the data source

Create a new `source1.yaml` file, and add the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
# Configuration.
source-id: "mysql-01" # Must be unique.

# Specifies whether DM-worker pulls binlogs with GTID (Global Transaction Identifier).
# The prerequisite is that you have already enabled GTID in the upstream MySQL.
# If the upstream database has enabled automatic switch of primary and standby, you must use the GTID mode.

> enable-gtid: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enable-gtid: true
```

from:
  host: "${host}"           # For example: 172.16.10.81
  user: "root"
  password: "${password}"   # Plaintext passwords are supported but not recommended. It is recommended that you use dmctl encrypt to encrypt plaintext passwords.
  port: ${port}             # For example: 3306
```

Run the following command in a terminal. Use `tiup dmctl` to load the data source configuration into the DM cluster:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell

> tiup dmctl --master-addr 172.16.10.71:8261 operate-source create source1.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create source1.yaml
```

```

The parameters are described as follows.

|Parameter      | Description |
|-              |-            |

> |--master-addr         | {advertise-addr} of any DM-master node in the cluster that dmctl connects to.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|--master-addr         | {advertise-addr} of any DM-master node in the cluster that dmctl connects to.eg: 172.16.10.71:8261|
```

| operate-source create | Load data sources to DM clusters. |

Repeat the above steps until all MySQL instances are added to the DM.

### Create a replication task

Edit the `task.yaml` file to configure the incremental replication mode and replication starting point for each data source.

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
name: task-test               # The name of the task. Should be globally unique.

> task-mode: incremental        # The mode of the task. "incremental" means only incremental data is migrated.

Reviewer 3: Maybe here we can emphasize that we'll use 'incremental' here because full data migration has finished by using Dumpling and TiDB Lightning

  route-rule-1:                       # Rule name. Migrate and merge table1 and table2 from my_db1 to the downstream my_db.table5.
    schema-pattern: "my_db1"          # Routing rule for the schema. It supports the wildcards "*" and "?".
    table-pattern: "table[1-2]"       # Routing rule for the table. It supports the wildcards "*" and "?".
    target-schema: "my_db"            # Name of the target schema.
    target-table: "table5"            # Name of the target table.
  route-rule-2:                       # Rule name. Migrate and merge table3 and table4 from my_db2 to the downstream my_db.table5.
    schema-pattern: "my_db2"
    table-pattern: "table[3-4]"
    target-schema: "my_db"
    target-table: "table5"

# Configure data sources. The following uses two data sources as an example.
mysql-instances:
  - source-id: "mysql-01"             # Data source ID. It is the source-id in source1.yaml.
    block-allow-list: "bw-rule-1"     # Use the block and allow list configuration above. Replicate `my_db1` in instance 1.
    route-rules: ["route-rule-1"]     # Use the configured routing rule above.
#       syncer-config-name: "global"  # Use the syncers configuration below.

>     meta:                             # The migration starting point of binlog when task-mode is incremental and there is no checkpoint in the downstream database. A checkpoint prevails if any.

Author: Rephrased.

      binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db1/metadata in Step 1. It must be the GTID when the upstream has enabled primary-standby switch.
      binlog-pos: ${binlog-position}
      # binlog-gtid:                  " For example: 09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"
  - source-id: "mysql-02"             # Data source ID. It is the source-id in source1.yaml.
    block-allow-list: "bw-rule-2"     # Use the block and allow list configuration above. Replicate `my_db2` in instance2.
    route-rules: ["route-rule-2"]     # Use the routing rule configured above.
#       syncer-config-name: "global"  # Use the syncers configuration below.
    meta:                             # The migration starting point of binlog when task-mode is incremental and there is no checkpoint in the downstream database. A checkpoint prevails if any.

>       # binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db2/metadata in Step 1. It must be the GTID when the upstream has enabled primary-standby switch.

Author: ```suggestion
      # binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db2/metadata in Step 1. You can either specify binlog-name + binlog-pos or binlog-gtid. When the upstream database service is configured to switch master between different nodes automatically, use binlog GTID here. 
```

>       binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db2/metadata in Step 1. It must be the GTID when the upstream has enabled primary-standby switch.
>       binlog-pos: ${binlog-position}
>       # binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # binlog-name: "${binlog-name}"   # The log location recorded in ${data-path}/my_db2/metadata in Step 1. It must be the GTID when the upstream has enabled primary-standby switch.
      # binlog-pos: ${binlog-position}
      binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"
```

Reviewer: 我们决定劝用户优先使用 GTID 模式

- `-p` or `--password` specifies the password to be used.
- `-p` or `--port` specifies the port to be used.
- `-h` or `--host` specifies the IP address of the data source.
- `-t` or `--thread` specifies the number of threads for the export. Increasing the number of threads improves the concurrency of Dumpling and the export speed, and increases the database's memory consumption. Therefore, it is not recommended to set the number too large.
- `-o` or `--output` specifies the export directory of the storage, which supports a local file path or a [URL of an external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md).
- `-r` or `--row` specifies the maximum number of rows in a single file. If you use this parameter, Dumpling enables the in-table concurrency to speed up the export and reduce the memory usage.
- `-F` specifies the maximum size of a single file. The unit is `MiB`. Inputs such as `5GiB` or `8KB` are also acceptable. It is recommended to keep the value to 256 MiB or less, if you use TiDB Lightning to load this file into a TiDB instance.
- `-B` or `--database` specifies databases to be exported.

> - `-f` or `--filter` export tables that match the filter pattern. For the filter syntax, see [table-filter](/table-filter.md).

Author: OK. Changed it to table.

> **Note:**
>
> If the size of a single exported table exceeds 10 GiB, it is strongly recommended to use the `-r` and `-F` options.

Then, run the following command to use Dumpling to export `table3` and `table4` from `my_db2`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dumpling -h ${ip} -P 3306 -u root -t 16 -r 200000 -F 256MB -B my_db2 -f 'my_db2.table[34]' -o ${data-path}/my_db2

> ```

Reviewer 2: The original text has been changed to "然后使用同样的方式从 my_db2 中导出表 table3 和 table4。注意路径在相同`${data-path}`下的不同子目录`my_db2`。"

> The reason for storing all source data tables in one directory is to facilitate subsequent migration by TiDB Lightning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the preceding procedures, all source data tables are now exported to the `${data-path}` directory. The reason for this practice is to facilitate subsequent import by TiDB Lightning.
```

The starting point information needed for incremental replication is in the `${data-path}` directory, and in the `metadata` files of `my_db1` and `my_db2`. They are meta-information files automatically generated by Dumpling. To perform incremental replication, you need to note down the binlog location information.

> 
> Congratulations! Now you have exported all the required full data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Step 2. Start TiDB Lightning to migrate data

Before starting TiDB Lightning for migration, it is recommended that you understand how to handle checkpoints, and then choose the appropriate way to proceed according to your needs.

### Checkpoints

> Migrating a large volume of data usually takes hours or even days. If such a long running processes unfortunately crashes, it can be very frustrating to redo everything from scratch.
> 
> Fortunately, TiDB Lightning provides a `checkpoints` feature to let you store the migration progress, so that migration task can resume from the breakpoint upon restart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrating a large volume of data usually takes hours or even days. There is a certain chance that the long-running process is interrupted and restarts again. It can be very frustrating to redo everything from scratch.

Fortunately, TiDB Lightning provides a `checkpoints` feature to let you store the migration progress, so that an interrupted migration task can resume from the breakpoint upon restart.
```

> If the TiDB Lightning task crashes due to unrecoverable errors (for example, data corruption), it will not pick up from the breakpoint, but will report an error and quit the task. You need to solve the problem by using the `tidb-lightning-ctl` command. The options include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the TiDB Lightning task crashes due to unrecoverable errors (for example, data corruption), it will not pick up from the breakpoint, but will report an error and quit the task. To ensure the safety of the imported data, you must resolve these errors by using the `tidb-lightning-ctl` command before proceeding with other steps. The options include:
```
